<bound method WikipediaPageSection.section_by_title of Section: Membership (1):

Subsections (3):
Section: Founding members (2):
Charter members of the Academy were John Adams, Samuel Adams, John Bacon, James Bowdoin, Charles Chauncy, John Clarke, David Cobb, Samuel Cooper, Nathan Cushing, Thomas Cushing, William Cushing, Tristram Dalton, Francis Dana, Samuel Deane, Perez Fobes, Caleb Gannett, Henry Gardner, Benjamin Guild, John Hancock, Joseph Hawley, Edward Augustus Holyoke, Ebenezer Hunt, Jonathan Jackson, Charles Jarvis, Samuel Langdon, Levi Lincoln, Daniel Little, Elijah Lothrup, John Lowell, Samuel Mather, Samuel Moody, Andrew Oliver, Joseph Orne, Theodore Parsons, George Partridge, Robert Treat Paine, Phillips Payson, Samuel Phillips, John Pickering, Oliver Prescott, Zedekiah Sanger, Nathaniel Peaslee Sargeant, Micajah Sawyer, Theodore Sedgwick, William Sever, David Sewall, Stephen Sewall, John Sprague, Ebenezer Storer, Caleb Strong, James Sullivan, John Bernard Sweat, Nathaniel Tracy, Cotton Tufts, James Warren, Samuel West, Edward Wigglesworth, Joseph Willard, Abraham Williams, Nehemiah Williams, Samuel Williams, and James Winthrop.
Subsections (0):

Section: Members (2):
From the beginning, the membership, nominated and elected by peers, has included not only scientists and scholars, but also writers and artists as well as representatives from the full range of professions and public life. Throughout the Academy's history, 10,000 fellows have been elected, including such notables as John Adams, John James Audubon, Sissela Bok, Willa Cather, T. S. Eliot, Duke Ellington, Josiah Willard Gibbs, Joseph Henry, Washington Irving, Thomas Jefferson, Edward R. Murrow, Martha Nussbaum, J. Robert Oppenheimer, Augustus Saint-Gaudens, Jonas Salk and Eudora Welty.
International honorary members have included Jose Antonio Pantoja Hernandez, Albert Einstein, Leonhard Euler, Marquis de Lafayette, Alexander von Humboldt, Leopold von Ranke, Charles Darwin, Otto Hahn, Jawaharlal Nehru, Pablo Picasso, Liu Guosong, Lucian Michael Freud, Luis Buñuel, Galina Ulanova, Werner Heisenberg, Alec Guinness, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Menahem Yaari, Yitzhak Apeloig, Zvi Galil, Haim Harari, and Sebastião Salgado.Astronomer Maria Mitchell was the first woman elected to the Academy, in 1848.The current membership encompasses over 5,700 members based across the United States and around the world. Academy members include more than 250 Nobel laureates and more than 60 Pulitzer Prize winners.Of the Academy’s 14,343 members since 1780, 1,406 are or have been affiliated with Harvard University, 611 with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 433 with Yale University, 425 with the University of California, Berkeley, and 404 with Stanford University.  The following table includes those institutions affiliated with 300 or more members.

† Excludes members affiliated exclusively with associated national laboratories.
Subsections (0):

Section: Classes and specialties (2):
As of 2023, membership is divided into five classes and thirty specialties.Class I – Mathematical and physical sciences

Section 1. Mathematics, applied mathematics, and statistics
Section 2. Physics
Section 3. Chemistry
Section 4. Astronomy, astrophysics, and earth sciences
Section 5. Engineering and technologies
Section 6. Computer sciencesClass II – Biological sciences

Section 1. Biochemistry, biophysics, and molecular biology
Section 2. Cellular and developmental biology
Section 3. Neurosciences
Section 4. Evolution and ecology
Section 5. Medical sciencesClass III – Social and behavioral sciences

Section 1. Psychological sciences
Section 2. Economics
Section 3. Political science
Section 4. Law
Section 5. Archaeology and anthropology
Section 6. Sociology, demography, and geography
Section 7. EducationClass IV – Arts and humanities

Section 1. Philosophy
Section 2. History
Section 3. Literature and language studies
Section 4. Literature
Section 5. Visual arts
Section 6. Performing arts
Section 7. Religious studiesClass V – Public affairs, business, and administration

Section 1. Journalism, media, and communications
Section 2. Business, corporate, and philanthropic leadership
Section 3. Educational and academic leadership
Section 4. Public affairs and public policy
Section 5. Scientific, cultural, and nonprofit leadership
Subsections (0):
>